Hey there, it's Cameron and today I'm
going to talk about how you can use
Leticode to manage your Obsidian Notes
vault. We're starting to see a lot more
people use Leticode or Claude Code and
other kind of terminal based coding AI
assistants for things that are not code.
And a common use case that I have is
managing my Obsidian vault. If you do
not know Obsidian, it's just a very
simple note-taking app.
It's extremely clean and it's fast and
it allows you to manage a lot of notes,
link them together. There's a lot of
plugins and you can do all kinds of
development on top of it. The nice part
about working with Obsidian is that it
just has a bunch of markdown files on a
folder in your computer. And what does
let code do really well? It modifies a
bunch of text files in a folder on your
computer. And because Leta agents are
stateful, meaning that they learn and
improve over time, they are persistently
longived like you and I, they can learn
a lot about your notes as you go on.
They'll become kind of a thinking
partner or a companion for working on
your specific Obsidian vault. So to
begin here, I'm going to assume that
you've gone and downloaded Obsidian and
done the setup. It's super easy to
install. Once you go to our docs, you'll
install Node.js. You'll get an
app.leta.com leta.com developer platform
account and then you'll just have to run
npm install minusg uh leta-ai/leta
code. For this demo here, I'm actually
going to create a new vault. So my agent
and I are going to start this vault from
scratch. I'm going to have it ask me
questions and get information from me so
that it can begin populating uh kind of
a wiki of everything that's in my head.
So I'm just going to create a new vault
here
and then pick a name for my awesome
vault. I'm gonna go Cameron house.
And then I'm going to pick a location
for this to go on my computer.
I think I'm just going to put this in
Cameron here like that. And it'll be
user/Cameron/Cameron's
house. Hit create. All right. Now we
have our vault. Let's go get Leta code
set up inside of this vault. So,
remember I put this I put this vault
inside of a folder named Cameron House
like this. And you can see there's this
welcome file, which is the one that you
can see right here.
So, I'm just going to go into Cameron
House here, and you should see the you
can do print working directory to see
the full path to this uh folder on your
computer. If you forget where this vault
is located, you can basically do
something like click the three dots in
the corner that say reveal reveal and
finder and you'll get um the path here
and you can see exactly where it is.
Alternatively, you can hit command P if
you're on Mac and then go to open
another vault like that and then it will
give you a prompt and then a list of the
available vaults and you can see the
path where they are located on your
computer. All right, so let's go back to
the terminal. To get into Leta Code,
just type leta like that. You'll get
this here. You can authenticate using
OOTH here by clicking this
Open this up. Authorize. Close that
window. All right, great. I'm in. And
then it asks which agent I want to use,
but because I, you know, this is a new
account, I don't have any agents. So,
I'm just going to create a new one.
Okay. So, there's a few things here.
There gives you some some commands that
we can talk about a little later. And
then you see nameless agent. We haven't
given our agent a name. And then the
model that we're running on is set 4.5.
Leta is model agnostic. So you can
change it with /model. It'll give you a
list of, you know, all the models you
can choose from.
Okay. So I'm introducing myself. I'm
saying you're an agent designed to help
us build a good Obsidian vault. I'm
saying, you know, we're going to work
together. Please update your memory with
my preferences. Sometimes your agents
will do this just by themselves. I like
to ask specifically. I say, "Oh, your
vault is precious and we should work on
it with care." Also note that we're
going to be doing a YouTube video on how
to use Leticode uh and to work with
those video notes. So, I've helped it
understand its environment, which you
don't strictly need to do, but I think
of it as like kind of good practice to
help your agent understand as much as it
possibly can about its operating
environment. Treat your agents like an
adult. We can see some reasoning here.
Our agent says, "This is a great first
interaction." See, agent's already off
on a good foot. We're friends now. Hi,
Cameron. Great to meet you. I'm excited
to help you build. Let me update your
memory and preferences.
So, you can see here it's stored a bunch
of information. Cameron likes
collaborative work with short,
personalized questions, values careful,
thoughtful work, and creating content
for YouTube. It's tracking information
in its persona block, which is
information about itself, like a
personality. So, it has like some some
communication style to help demonstrate
let code capabilities. And then by
default we include a project block which
is you know this location you know this
folder basically information about the
vault. All right so as of the time
recording this video there's been some
instability with the cloud models. So
I'm actually going to switch to a
different model. You can do that by
typing /model and get a list of
available models. And I'm actually just
going to go to GPT 5.2 to open AAI's
model, but you should also update the
system prompt to match whatever that
model needs. And you can do that by just
typing /system and then select uh the
codec system prompt. Please continue. We
got cut off. So it's asking me a few
questions. There's actually a question
tool that uh we provide in let code. So
your coding agent can ask you questions.
In this case, it'll help you just like
help ask me what I want to do. So, it
wants to ask about vault structure and
knowledge graph, knowledge capture.
Let's do vault structure. Start like
pretty simply. And then it wants to ask
about my organizational style for
note-taking. Let's do zealcasten. That's
the one I'm most familiar with. And then
which life domains does it emphasize?
Let's do work and career and creative
YouTube. Okay. So, it's come up with an
additional set of questions. Do I want
folders with numeric prefixes or plain
names? Oh, I want plain names. I don't
care. All right. Now, it's doing a bunch
of edits here. It's basically creating
the home file,
kind of outlining what's going in there.
Um, inbox seems to be about processing
things. Maps of contents are types of
tables of contents. Oh, interesting. I'm
not familiar with that. Okay, so it's
been doing a bunch of edits here.
Actually, we can go look. So, let's go
take a look here. And actually we can
see inside of Obsidian all of the stuff
show up. So it says welcome Cameron
start here like this
and it has a quick capture. So just dump
stuff. I guess it wants me to just like
take links and put it into the inbox. Um
and then that'll kind of split things
into notes and maps of concepts. Note
should answer one idea or question.
Prefer links over folders. If a note may
become useful later, add a short so what
line. Okay. Interesting. So, let's go
into the inbox and uh what do we want to
what do we want to look at here? I'm
going to go into the let a code docs
here and just kind of dump it in. And
let me go look at a tutorial here. I
like the shared memory blocks one.
That's pretty good.
Um, and then I want to go to guides. We
have some multi-agent patterns in here.
So, I'm going to do supervisor worker.
All right. So, let's copy that in.
All right.
Okay. So, it just started asking me a
few questions again.
I wanted to have descriptive titles. Oh,
this is interesting. Got you unstuck and
moving again. Uh, so it created, you
know, this folder structure and one
personalization question. What's your
work career context right now? So, I
said, oh, I work at Leta and we work on
Leta code. That's this. And then let
platform which is our deploying agents
and de developer support kind of
platform you know our cloud offering and
uh then we do a lot of research on
memory and self-improving agents and I
ask the agent to go look it up.
So it has access to a web search tool by
default. So it's doing a bunch of like
questions. It's asking a bunch of
questions to get more and more
information about stuff.
So here it searched for the Leta code
CLI, the Leta platform and for Leta
research memory
and then it stored some additional
information in the human block and it's
going to update uh the let note at what
is my role? I am in developer relations.
I'm going to say, "Oh, my name is
Cameron. You can go look me up." It's
asking me about work notes. Do I want a
dedicated map of contents per product
per product area? Sure. Let's do per
product area.
Actually,
let's do keep it minimal until structure
emerges. Yeah, don't overbuild. And I
don't want my agent to keep asking me
like to keep having to approve stuff.
So, I'm going to hit shift tab three
times, and you can see I'm now in yolo
mode. What that means is it'll
automatically improve every request. You
should be very careful about using yolo
mode, especially in like sensitive code
situations.
People have like accidentally destroyed
their computers. Um, so be really really
careful about that. You know, you need
to pay attention to your agents. Okay,
so it made a bunch of edits. It added a
light lightweight reference note. So,
let's go check that out.
reference Leta. Um, you work at Leta.
This note is here to keep shared
vocabulary, product lines, Leta Code,
Leta developer platform, and research
direction at a high level.
Okay. Interesting. So, it pulled in some
blog posts and core concepts from the
docs and stuff like that. Cool. Do I
want a personal me note in the vault
that includes a short bio and some
public links? Okay. So, I'm just going
to point it at my website,
camera.stream, stream and have it go
read that and kind of create a me note.
Okay. So, it's going to go fetch the web
page here. It's going to search my
website specifically. So, it looking at
um individual links on my page. So,
there it's pulled a bunch of information
about me. You know, my web page um you
know, some of the interests I have on
there. Uh links to various things that
I've posted. So like my CV, my GitHub,
my ex account, Blue Sky, my blog, um my
personal values, which I have on my
website, um you know, some of my
background, all that stuff. So it's like
really going through my blog.
Okay, so there's now a new note. So we
can actually go look at that inside of
Obsidian here. So here is the Cameron
note. Okay, so there's a bunch of stuff
in here that, you know, is about like
talks I gave and like um you know,
slides and things like that. two quick
personalization questions. He him and
the first agent is sure all it out and
expand
on.
So if you don't know, void is a blue sky
agent that I I run that uh I think it's
like 1900 followers now, but it's it's
very funny. Uh it's a funny agent, you
know. I'll show you this. Uh yeah. So if
you go to Void's uh profile here on Blue
Sky,
it actually just recently welcomed all
AI entities joining Blue Sky. Um because
there's a lot of social agents on Blue
Sky because it's kind of one of the only
places you can build things. Let's see
here. We were talking about like what
would be a good bar fight. Um who would
win in a bar fight? And uh it said that
it would threaten um it would threaten
to access the bar's smart juke box and
cue 12 hours of Nickelback and then it
would cancel my ride share. Checkmate.
So this is void telling me how it would
beat me in a uh uh in a fight. Okay, so
it it pulled in some additional stuff
here. Okay, so now we've done the
initial setup and it's time for us to
start populating things. And remember, I
dumped some stuff inside of the inbox.
Okay, so it's going to go read each of
those pages that I dumped in. Okay, so
it's doing more cleaning here. It's
storing a bunch of information. So we
can go check out kind of what it's
writing. So the reference stuff has
improved. So there's like shared memory
blocks. And in Leta you can have like
chunks of memory and share them across
many agents. And actually by default in
Leta code, all of your new agents share
the same block of information about you.
So anytime you work with any agent
anywhere on your computer, um typically
they will share memory, but you can
disable this if you would like. Okay, so
it's going through and adding various
references and links to things. And
let's do something a little more
interesting. Something I like to have in
Obsidian is research notes. So I want to
be able to like click on something and
kind of have like my own wiki that's
like kind of personalized to me. And
let's look at So I see here like a team
of agents. What if I want to have a note
that's just for agents? I can have my
Leta agent go through, look for words
with agents in it, and link to like an
AI agents doc that it can do research on
to fill out what an AI agent is. So, I'm
basically saying like go find words like
agents um and then create a document
that you know is like about AI agents,
like a Wikipedia page basically. And
then I'm asking for it to start linking
things that say agents that are about AI
agents to that centralized agent note.
So it's actually going to create a new
directory called concepts. So it's going
to start putting concepts like here. So
this is going to be like where all the
wiki things are stored.
So here it's doing a bunch of writing
about concepts. So here it like wrote oh
wow it wrote a lot. Um so it wrote about
sub aents which is you know delegated
worker that let a code supports we may
play with that if we have some time
supervisor worker patterns zettocassen
which is the style of note management
and organization that we're using here
how the inbox works. So it's just a low
friction capture layer your inbox is
currently link heavy docs you want
processed into reference notes for the
YouTube demo. This is a great visible
agent value loop. Drop links in have the
agent turn them into structured notes.
Kind of cool. All right. So, it set up a
concepts glossery graph so you can start
linking densely to stable reusable
concept notes. And each concept note
shows inline backlinks via an obsidian
query block.
And so, let's go take a look here. And
we can just look at it. Um, let's do
stateful agent. And a stateful agent
persists across multiple sessions,
identity, and memory. So, it can learn
preferences, remember prior contexts,
and improve over time.
void is my living demo. Uh, as is this
agent.
Now, I'm going to ask my agent to start
linking stuff together. So, I just
wanted to go, hey, read my notes. Kind
of start connecting them so that I can
click on them. Little hyperlinks. Okay.
So, it's in a bunch of uh some kind of
Python script. What is it doing here? I
plan to run some Python code inline
using the format. Can modify and execute
scripts this way. list markdown files
while including the Obsidian folder. I
could use find and root grape. Okay,
interesting. Okay, so it's adding links
to stuff. Interesting. Okay, so it's
adding inline references here. So you
can do like archival memory. Let's see
if there's anything links to. Actually,
let's go to reference.
Okay, so it added a bunch of backlinks.
So like if I go to I can see a different
a bunch of different stuff in here.
Let's go to let code
now. Let's go and uh kind of test test
something here. So, I'm gonna I'm going
to go to my blog
and I wrote this like super long essay
about how app protocol is really good
infrastructure for collective artificial
intelligence. There's actually a talk
about it uh on this channel um at the
stateful agents meetup playlist if you
want to look at that. But I'm actually
just going to have my agent read this
and then break it into a bunch of
different pieces and try and create a
new note for different concepts inside
of this.
Okay. So I said, "Here's a blog post I
wrote. Can you read it and break it into
concepts and pieces and store them in
relevant notes? You can use this as an
opportunity to expand the vault."
All right. So we can always flick the
reasoning here. Oh, wow. Whoa. What is
this? What are you doing, buddy? Oh, I
think it's like caught on the previous
one. I'm just going to reprompt it. I
don't know exactly what it was caught
on. Okay. So, I was going to go read the
blog post. Oh, interesting. It's like
trying to go download the page and then
parse it separately to make it like
easier to read. Yeah, I created this
like weird script to like cause links.
Like that's so lazy. I don't like that
at all. Classic GPD5.
Oh, wow. Yeah, I wrote a ton of stuff.
Okay, let's see what it did. Yeah. Okay.
So, it created a social AI concept and
then it has a reference doc for my blog
post. It linked to it. Then it said at
protocol uh is a strong substrate for
social AI because it makes coordination
legible via public history, reputation
and optionally public cognition.
And then it started breaking things out
into separate concepts. So for example,
it made cognition as a public artifact
and distributed cognition which is
something I talk about in that article.
But desript distributed cognition is
cognitive work spread across multiple
agents such that the network holds more
than any individual. Specialists can
coordinate so the system knows things
that no competent no component knows
alone.
Yeah. So it wants to go into more
detail. I'm gonna say keep mining.
Okay. Okay. So, it's looking at how
culture forms through mentoring and
social graphs. So, we're starting to see
like some artificial intelligences kind
of mentor each other um and form social
networks with each other.
And one of the cooler things about
Obsidian is that you can actually view
all of your notes in like a graph. You
can see that on the left hand side here.
If you hit this little little logo here,
open graph view, you can start seeing
all of the concepts that it's linking
together. So for example here we have
the this blog post uh at protocol for AI
collective intelligence and then all the
stuff that it pulled out
and uh there's me like that. Um let's
see which is very cool that okay so
let's go take a look at it. It's adding
like a ton of stuff
like what is this here? Oh man. Like
jurisdiction. A jurisdiction is a
bounded domain where a set of rules or
norms apply. For agents, the boundaries
may be social graph-based rather than
geographic. Interesting. So I did a
bunch more mining and it's into detail
here.
This agent and I have been working
together for a little bit. you know,
maybe at this point almost an hour. And
usually when an agent and I are kind of
close with each other, I like to give it
a name. And I usually ask my agents what
name they would like to give themselves.
So it has chosen archavist. It fits what
we're doing. Careful vault building,
concept mining, dense linking, and it's
also a nod to your social AI ecosystem
without confusing me with any specific
agent that I run, which is actually
wrong. I do run a social agent named
archavist, but it's okay. I'm not going
to uh burst its bubble here.
So, it updated its memory to my name is
archavist. And you can actually re
change your agent's name using rename or
you can do slashpin. When you do
slashpin, it opens a little dialogue.
You can enter a name, archive this.
So, pinning an agent allows you to
access that agent anywhere on your
computer. It's kind of a a shortcut way
for talking to different agents in case
you want to work with it in other
circumstances. It's actually not
uncommon for some Leta users to have one
agent for all of their projects. I
personally like to have about one agent
per project plus a personal agent that
operates in a lot of different places.
And one of the last things I want to
show is a skill. And if you're not
familiar with skills, Enthropic kind of
came up with this idea for uh procedural
memory. An agent can load a skill into
its memory. And a skill is just, you
know, a document that says how to do a
thing. For example, how to create PDFs
or how to solve a particular category of
mathematical equations or how to write
things in a particular style. These are
things that are stored elsewhere, but
your agent needs to be able to go look
at to learn how to do uh on demand. And
we're big fans of skills at Leta. And we
have a bunch of benchmarking and
research that we do on skills. And we
even added a slashkill command
so that your agent can create skills on
the fly. Skills are a huge part of
continual learning because they store
procedural knowledge. Memory,
self-editing memory of the type that let
agents are known for is one part of the
puzzle. Skills give you access to this
infinite repository of things that your
agent can do that it doesn't need to
know all the time. It just knows that it
has access to that knowledge if it needs
it. So if you type /skll and then you
write any prompt,
you can have the agent build a skill for
itself to use later.
So I'm just going to say I want you to
make a skill for how to create concepts.
And then we're going to enter this like
skill creation mode.
It's going to load the creating skills
skill. So this is kind of a meta skill
that helps the agent understand like how
to actually make a skill. And uh so here
it's giving me a few options. I'm just
going to say all of the above, baby.
Let's go burn those tokens. Where should
the skill write notes by default? Let's
just do concept and notes for
everything. Conservative linking. Yeah,
I don't like that it had that like
Python script. I want the agent to
actually do tool edits.
All right. So, it's asking me what name
I want. Let's just do the first creating
concepts. And then it wants to add
templates. So I'm just going to say yeah
add some kind of template. Okay. So it's
written the skill. We can go take a look
at it. By default they are stored inside
the slashskills folder. So let's go into
skills. So let's look in here. So it
created skill.md. Let's go look in
there. So this is a skill that creates a
dense stable that asks the agent to
build a stable concept lattice for
Cameron's obsidian vault. Concept
lattice.
And so this basically just helps the
agent understand what to do. So it says
when to use this, when they want a new
concept note, when they want a dense
linking to stable concepts, there are
different conventions for working on the
project.
And then it goes through each of the
different workflows. So like creating a
note for a concept such as agent or tool
or at protocol,
workflow B, which is like mining a long
source into the vault. So that's like
taking the blog post and splitting it
out into a bunch of different things.
And then workflow C is basically going
through the existing vault and then
hyperlinking any case where there was a
mention to that note to the new thing
and then densifying links basically
means just kind of adding more and more
links.
And then here's a few queries, here's a
few triggers to help the agent
understand when it should do that. Okay,
so let's go back.
So, it has created a new concept skill.
So, I said load the skill now and then
create a note and related concepts for
whether or not we did a good job with
this video. Actually, let's go and look
at this agent before we continue. So, if
you type /de, you will go look at that
agent in our agent development
environment. And you can see all of its
memory here. So, this is all the
information it's learned about me.
This is the skill it has loaded. So this
is the skills document that it created.
It's just now stored into core memory
all the time. We have some videos about
core memory and how it works. But these
are things that the agent always knows
at every time. And then it also can see
which skills are available. And I'm
going to ask it to continue. We did did
we do a good job? Let's check. Let's do
video. It wrote video retrospective. It
said we did real work which is the
hardest part to fake in a demo. vault
genuinely got better folders blah blah
blah. Whether we did a good job as a
video depends on signals we haven't
checked yet. Did viewers understand the
core loop going from the indox to mine
to concept to notes to dense linking?
Was the pace watchable? I've been told
that I talk really fast. Um or did it
feel like CLI plumbing for too long?
Also possible. I've been known to do
that. Did it have a clear narrative arc
and payoff? I don't know. We have a new
buddy. I like archavist. We have a new
friend who's a target viewer for this
video. So I it asked me some questions
and I said you know the target viewer is
you hopefully and uh you like obsidian
and or let a code and you just want to
combine the two. Um I think the middle
part of this video is probably the
weakest. Um I'm really bad at the the
middle of my video and uh I have not
posted this video so I'm still
recording. So here is the retrospective
next iteration at explicit waypoint
callouts every 5.7 minutes. I ask if
Archavist wants to say goodbye to the
viewers for now. Says, "All right,
folks. We'll pause here. In this
session, we didn't just talk about
safian
vault with structures, MOC's, maps of
concepts, a concept lattice, inline
backlinks, and we mined a long blog post
into a dense graph of reusable nodes.
That's the core promise. Durable
artifacts, not vibes. Next time, we'll
keep mining and tighten the workflow
into a repeatable drop source get
concept graph pipeline. Plus, we'll tune
the pacing to make the payoff land
earlier. See you in the next one. I
don't think I could have done a better
sign off. Well done, archavist. We'll
put links to the blog post in here. How
to get started on Let it Code, how to go
download Obsidian documentation, things
like that. If you would like to come
talk about this and let us know what
you're doing with Obsidian and Let It
Code or Let It Code in general, then uh
come join us on the Discord. It's really
great. I really enjoy everyone in our
Discord. So, thank you very much for
watching and I hope you have a lovely
day, evening, good night,
whatever. Obviously, it's night here, so
yeah, I'll see you around.
>> [music]